Creates the August Newsletter (#192)
readthedocs/ethicalads.io: content/posts/newsletter-august-2021.md

Title: EthicalAds Newsletter - August 2021
Date: September 17, 2021

> description: Our September 2021 ads update, including stats and commentary on our progress as we build EthicalAds

Reviewer: I feel weird having the title be August & this was September? Should we do:

```suggestion
description: Updates from August, including stats and commentary on our progress as we build EthicalAds
```

## New features

These are the major features we released in the last month:

* Giving the publisher the ability to turn off/on their own payouts, managing their own payment schedule.
* In the ad client, we shrunk the size of the client by about 40% which results in faster load times.
* We released our Surveillance Advertising informational page to the [Learning Hub](https://www.ethicalads.io/surveillance-advertising/).
* We updated our [Publisher Guide](https://www.ethicalads.io/publisher-guide/)
  with an example of a great placement and some explanation as to why they are so desirable.

You can always see our latest server updates in our [ethical-ad-server changelog](https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/changelog.html) and [ethical-ad-client changelog](https://ethical-ad-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html).

## August advertising stats

In August 2021:

* We generated **$27,913.01** for our publishers.
* We had **104 publishers** on our network with at least one paid ad impression.
* We had **18,521,177** paid ad views across the world marking another increase over July's ~14 million views.

> We started a number of new global campaigns this month which boosted our paid view count significantly,
> although we were not able to onboard any new publishers to accomodate for this new business. 
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We started a number of new global campaigns this month which boosted our paid view count significantly,
although we are still limited by publishers across the network. 

```

Is this true? We definitely onboarded some publishers..

Author: The overall number didn't change so we onboarded some publishers but also kicked some off resulting in a delta of 0.

  with an example of a great placement and some explanation as to why they are so desirable.

You can always see our latest server updates in our [ethical-ad-server changelog](https://ethical-ad-server.readthedocs.io/en/latest/developer/changelog.html) and [ethical-ad-client changelog](https://ethical-ad-client.readthedocs.io/en/latest/changelog.html).

## August advertising stats

In August 2021:

* We generated **$27,913.01** for our publishers.
* We had **104 publishers** on our network with at least one paid ad impression.
* We had **18,521,177** paid ad views across the world marking another increase over July's ~14 million views.

We started a number of new global campaigns this month which boosted our paid view count significantly,
although we were not able to onboard any new publishers to accomodate for this new business. 

## Tricky bits

We still have the fortunate problem of being overbooked in the US and EU especially,
which has resulted in many of our on-going campaigns falling behind of schedule.
In order to honor our existing advertising flights, we're scheduling out new flights to start in October.

> We're also releasing our new prospectus in October, raising the price of these overbooked geos.

Reviewer: These don't feel like tricky things? Why are we mentioning the prospectus here? 

I think we should probably mention spam & dashboard slowness here.

Author: I was planning on mentioning spam in our September stats update.

Reviewer: That works 👍

## Upcoming features

The major features in our upcoming roadmap:

* Adding graphs to our advertising dashboard.

> * Feedback for publishers on their view-time statistics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adding "view time" statistics to our reporting, so that we can better understand how ads are performing.
```

> * Highlighting our 10% discount on ad buys over $3000 in the flight report page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Highlighting our 10% discount on ad buys over $3000 in the flight report page.
* Improved performance of our dashboard, after doing some infrastructure work to improve our databases. 
```
